[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi, it's James here from
"Food Matters" and today,
we have an extra special guest.
His name is Lewis
Howes, and he's
gone from not getting
his goal to achieving
a goal and a level of greatness
that you could hardly ever
imagine.
And he is now inspiring
hundreds of thousands
of people around the globe,
if not millions every month,
through his podcasts
helping them achieve
their own level of greatness.
>> Lewis, how you doing?
>> Doing well, man.
>> Good.
Nice to chat.
>> Yeah, man.
>> So your story started
out with having this goal
as a child.
Your father had these
expectations for you.
You had expectations
for yourself,
and you worked, you
were like nearly got it
and then, boom,
something happened.
Tell me about what that was like
going through that experience
and ending up really living
with your sister for a while.
>> Yeah, I mean, for me the
whole dream was always to be
a professional athlete,
but originally,
it was an All-American
athlete in college,
just cause when I was a kid, I
was watching sports with my dad
on the couch and we would
watch the Ohio State Buckeyes,
and we'd see these All-Americans
who were the greatest
in the country and I said,
well, that's what I want to be.
I want to be one of the
greatest in the country.
And that was the
dream, and I actually
achieved that dream of being
an All-American in two sports
but then, ultimately,
it's the goal,
get paid to do what
you love, and that
was to be a professional
football player.
I did it for a little
bit until I got injured.
I broke my wrist right
here-- you can see the scar--
diving into a wall playing arena
football, and snapped my wrist.
And so over the next
year and a half,
I was on my sister's
couch six months
in a full-arm cast
just like this,
and I didn't have a
college degree at the time.
I didn't really go to
school to learn anything
except for to play sports, so
I didn't have any other skills.
This was in the height of the
economic challenge in the US
in 2008, 2009, where people with
degrees weren't getting jobs
and so for me, I really
didn't know what to do next.
My whole identity was wrapped
around in being an athlete
and now, I couldn't
do that anymore.
So I had some
challenging moments
for that year and a half living
for free at my sister's house,
eating her food for free,
just trying to survive,
but what I started to do
was reach out to mentors.
As an athlete, I
had great coaches
who helped me become
a better athlete,
so I said how can I
transition and learn
from great mentors, great
coaches in life or in business
to see how I can apply
those same principles
to my next chapter, to
my next season of life?
And that's what I did.
I just started reaching
out to mentors,
learning information,
trying to consume as much
as I could, and figure out
what I wanted to do next.
>> How challenging was it
for you to have a goal that
you'd set and worked so hard
for and even to sort of impress
your father, in a way, to have
to let that go and to have
to go, I can't do that anymore?
>> It's really challenging
when you lose your identity,
especially as an athlete.
This is the way you've been
praised your entire life.
acknowledged your entire life
as being this good or great
athlete known for this one
thing that you can do.
So when you can no
longer do the one thing
that everyone praises you
and acknowledges you for,
then you don't get
acknowledgment anymore.
You have to figure
out, well, who am I?
What type of
character do I have?
What type of energy do I have?
What's my purpose?
What's my mission
beyond this one identity
that I don't have anymore?
So for me, it was
extremely depressing
for many months, one,
because I was injured.
It wasn't like I went
out on my own terms.
I went out on an injury, so it
was extremely depressing just--
you lose-- your
friends no longer
want to hang out with
you because you're not
into it anymore.
You're not getting acknowledged,
so I'm just thinking, well,
what--
who am I?
Why am I here?
What's my purpose?
And that's the challenge, just
rediscovering and reinventing
my purpose once I lost my dream.
So I think it takes--
that's why you
see a lot of professional
athletes struggle,
even if they were at the top
of the game, made millions,
you see when they retire, it's
like they lose their identity
and some of them go on down
the road of drugs, depression,
suicide.
There's a lot of
challenges that happen,
even with some of
the biggest stars,
because they're tied into their
identity of their one skill,
not who they are
as a human being.
So I had to learn about just how
to become a better human being
and not rely on my
athletic abilities.
>> So take your story a
little bit further for us.
So you went from this place
to being on the couch,
to being a little bit of
an internet entrepreneur,
then to figuring out that
helping people discover
their own greatness is
really your calling.
Tell me about how
that story evolved
and give me a little bit of a
snapshot of some of the things
that you're doing
today in the podcast.
>> Yeah, early on, I just wanted
to make enough money to get off
my sister's couch, so
it was survival mode.
Like how can I learn this
online marketing stuff
so I can make enough to find
an apartment and pay for rent?
And I did that.
I got an apartment
for $495 and it
felt like I was finally a
grown human being, right?
I could afford things.
I could pay my bills,
and then I just
said, how can I earn as
much money as possible
so I never have to
go back to the couch,
so I can get out of
this tiny apartment?
And I became obsessed
with learning
about how to build a
business and earning
as much money as possible.
I did that for a couple of
years and pretty quickly,
started to make seven
figures in my business.
But what I realized
is I was more focused
on money over impact,
or over things
that really fulfilled me.
It was helping me get out
of this survival mode, which
was great, but
then I said, well,
what is it I really want to do?
If I could do
anything in my life,
if I could live a more
purposeful, meaningful life
and really do something
that I dream about,
what would that be?
And for me, I've always
been fascinated by people
and understanding human
beings and interviewing them,
but I didn't really
have a platform before.
So now I said, OK,
I've got the resources.
I've got the money.
I've got about four or five
years of business experience
of online marketing,
let me go do
the thing I really want to do
which was interview people.
And I started this
podcast called
"The School of
Greatness" because I
said to myself, so
many things that I wish
I would've learned in school--
I felt like the
education system the way
I was raised in it
was broken for me.
I was always in the
special needs classes.
I was dyslexic.
It was hard for me to
understand to read and write,
and I just felt so insecure
my entire childhood,
and that's why I got into sports
because it gave me confidence.
It was something
I could do well.
So I said, man, I
wish I could ask
people who have done incredible
things in sports and business
and science, I wish I could ask
them the things about how they
got to where they
are, and I wish
that's the stuff I would
have learned growing up.
So I said, I'm
going to go create
the thing that I wish
I could listen to
and that's what I did.
I started this journey
with this podcast.
Now, five years
later, interviewed
over 600 people, some of the
top in the world of what they
do in business, sports, science,
and it's been incredible just
to learn the principles
that people have applied
to their life on how
they've overcome challenges
and how they've
achieved their dreams.
So I just wanted to pull
out those little nuggets
of information that people
could lean on and use
in their own life and it's
been an incredible journey.
>> Tell me about who your top
10, top 15 people you have--
>> Oh my gosh.
Well, every time I get
to connect with athletes,
it's always a pleasure
of mine, so when
I had Novak Djokovic on,
he was incredibly inspiring
about his story, living through
the wars in his country.
Maria Sharapova, I had Ray
Lewis, Super Bowl champion.
So those are great, when I get
the best athletes in the world
on.
Some of the pop stars--
I'm a big fan of Krewella,
the duo singing sisters.
I really like them.
I really like J Balvin, I
really like Tim Ferriss,
Liz Gilbert, Scooter Braun.
There's just been
some incredible people
I've got to connect with.
>> Awesome.
So what I want to talk
about now is really
transitioning a little
bit more to goal setting,
and I want to focus on that
for a second because you talk
a lot about goal setting in
your podcast, in your work,
and "School of Greatness" book.
And one of the things
that I wanted to touch on,
first of all, is that
around goal setting,
do you think that
a lot of people
are setting goals
based on the culture,
based on what other
people's goals are?
Because I find that
so many people end up
living their lives attaining
one goal and then they get it,
and they're like,
hang on, actually, I
didn't want this goal.
What have I done spending my
whole life doing this activity?
How do people know if
their goals are authentic,
and what's your process around
helping people set goals?
>> I think a lot of people
set goals based on what
their family or their
peers want them to do,
and that's good if it's
also what you want to do.
But a lot of times
people chase things
that they don't fully
love, and so they're
living someone else's life.
So I think you got
to figure out what's
the thing that I want to do?
You know, one of the biggest
regrets of the dying, those
that are about to
die, they said they
wish they would have
lived life on their terms
and done more what
they wanted to do,
not what other people
want them to do.
You live a healthier life when
you do things you want to do,
and so I think you
got to discover
what are the things that brings
you the most joy, the most
passion, the most fulfillment,
the most meaning, because life
is about living a meaningful
life, not someone else's
meaning, but what's
your meaning.
This is your
journey to discover,
not someone else's journey.
And so for me, I was
blessed to always
have parents that were
supportive of my dreams,
said if you want to be
a professional athlete,
we support it.
They didn't push it
on me, necessarily.
It's something that
I was driven by.
Luckily, I had that opportunity.
Most people don't have that.
And I think you really
got to figure out
what brings you the
most joy and why do you
want to do these things?
The why is the most
important thing.
Am I doing it for
superficial reasons?
Then it's not going
to be fulfilling.
Am I doing it because I want
to live a life of impact
and meaning and service?
That's where we get our
greatest fulfillment, when
we serve humanity in some
way, through our mission,
through our purpose,
through our dreams.
So I think it's first getting
clear on what is my mission?
And we all have a
different season
of life with different missions.
When I was in high
school, I just
wanted to be a
college All-American
and I wanted to
be a pro athlete.
That's all I cared
about, and maybe have
a couple of girls talk to me.
That was my dream, right?
After that was over, I
had to reinvent myself.
OK.
What do I want?
What's the purpose of my life
for this season of my life?
Well, I want to get
off my sister's couch.
I want to make money.
I want to build a business
and learn this part of life.
Once I did that and I made
a few million dollars,
I said, well, that's really
not the most fulfilling thing
that I want anymore.
Money is cool, but
it wasn't everything.
So I said, what
do I really want,
if I could do anything I want?
I said, I want to impact
100 million lives.
Why?
Why do I want to do this?
Why do I want to impact people?
For me, it was really
saying you know
what, at the end of the day,
all the money in the world,
I don't get to take
it with me, but if I
can impact 100 million people
to help them improve their life,
to help them live a life
with meaning, of purpose,
then I felt like that would
be a fulfilling life for me.
My dream.
It may not be someone else's
dream, but it would be for me.
So that's the season of the
life that I'm in right now,
and that's where I feel
like it brings me the most
fulfillment, the most joy,
the most passion, the most
energy, so I lean into the
thing that gives me that fuel.
So I think all of us get
to think about well, what
is the thing that brings us
the most joy, the most passion,
the most excitement for life?
Because that is going
to fuel our actions when
we go through adversity,
challenges, struggles,
stress, depression,
because we're all
going to face challenges.
So what's the fuel
that's going to get us
through those
challenges of life?
And I think our
why and our vision
support us in having that fuel.
>> Beautiful.
Great.
Great tie together
with the goal and fuel,
because I think it's
going to change, too,
like you said, the
season of life,
like you and I might just
want to be watercolor painters
in like 15 years' time--
>> That's it.
>> --and we got to
make peace with that.
>> That's it.
Exactly.
>> It's an interesting
transition to think about
saying, well, hey, now, I've got
this now and I'm driven by this
mission, but like I've got to
be open to the fact that maybe
in 15 years' time, I just
want to do watercolor.
>> Yeah, or surf all day.
>> Or surf all day.
But then, again, I
think you touched
on having an element
of service gives you
that sense of fulfillment,
which gives it
a sense of energy and passion.
>> Absolutely.
>> One of the
things around goals,
which I think is really
important to consider here,
is that people are
driven by pleasure,
and they're driven
by pain or fear.
But a lot of people pick--
like, when they think
about their goals,
they get fearful about,
well, if I don't achieve it,
I'm going to be ridiculed
or if I don't get this,
I'm going to be--
and then you get
all this pressure
from people like the
big man, Tony Robbins,
and even yourself,
you're like, you've
got to set unrealistic goals.
And I get that and I
love it, but people
get scared about that because
they get scared of failure.
>> Yeah.
>> How do you help people
approach fear in their lives
when it comes to goal setting
and setting out on a big
venture?
>> Let me let me address
something first before that.
I used to-- in my
first half of my life,
I really was
committed to my dreams
in order to prove people wrong.
I wanted to be a professional
athlete because people
said I couldn't do it, because
kids picked on me, because I
was picked last on
the dodgeball game,
because I didn't have
many friends growing up
in elementary school.
So I said, I'm going to
do this to prove everyone
wrong about me and to prove
to them how good I am,
whatever it is.
So for the first
half of my life,
I was driven by a negative
fuel around this goal,
and that negative drive was so
powerful that it allowed me--
it helped me to achieve my goal.
I was so focused.
I knew exactly what I wanted,
but the energy behind it
was negative.
It was to prove five people
wrong who doubted me.
And so when I
achieved my goal, I
remember feeling
so empty inside.
It's like, OK, I had the goal.
I had the structure.
I had the game plan, the daily
actions, all the things we
talked about and it happened.
Why am I still not happy?
Why am I unfulfilled?
Why was I actually angrier after
I achieved it than ever before?
I was so disciplined
for 15 years of my life,
and now I got exactly what
I wanted and I wasn't happy.
And I reflected on this and
said, well, maybe my goal
is just not big enough.
I need to go after
a bigger goal,
and so I kept going after these
unrealistic goals in business
and life and I kept
achieving them,
but it was all based
on this negative fuel
of proving people wrong.
And when I realized
I hit 30 years old
and I realized I was a "New
York Times" best seller,
I was building this massive
business, building an audience,
and nothing was working no
matter how big of the goal.
I still wasn't
happy and I realized
I was trying to prove
people wrong still.
And that's when I
shifted to saying
I'm not going to try to
prove people wrong anymore.
I'm going to try to lift
others up and prove people
right and live a life of
service and impact people,
and that's when I felt at
peace about my goal setting.
So I think it's something
important to talk about
is like are you
setting goals to prove
your parents wrong
or your friends wrong
or other people wrong
who doubted you?
I don't think
that's a healthy way
to set goals, so first
be clear on why you're
setting your goals
and make sure it's
a reason around fulfillment.
Now, the second thing
you talked about
is should we be setting
unrealistic goals?
Was that the question, right?
>> So a lot of the times, people
in the PD space are like, well,
you've got to set
a personal goal.
>> Shoot for the stars and
maybe land on the moon, yeah.
>> Yeah, exactly, and a lot of
people can get anxious about
that, or fearful or they doubt
themselves, where they're like,
well, I can't achieve that.
How do people move
beyond that fear?
>> I think people play
very small in their life,
and they're not aware of how
powerful they actually are
and how much they can actually
create or how much they could
achieve in their life.
For example, when I coach
entrepreneurs and I say,
what is your income
and impact goal?
Because we want it to
be measurable and we
want it to be in
a specific time.
Let's say for the
next 12 months,
you have an impact
and an income goal.
What is your goal and why?
And a lot of times,
they'll tell me
a number of how many
people they want to impact
and how much they want to make.
And I say to them,
what would it look
like if you were able to do
that in the next 60 days?
If you could achieve
that big goal
that you set for yourself for
the year, but during 60 days?
Do you think you could do it?
And they're like well, no.
I never thought about it.
It just seems like
such a big goal.
Then I break it
down and I say, OK,
this is going to seem
dramatic, but imagine
I have a gun to your head
and I said in 60 days,
if you don't make this happen,
I'm going to pull the trigger.
Someone's going to
pull the trigger on you
and everyone you love, could
you achieve that big goal
in 60 days?
And they say, absolutely.
OK.
So why was it so big
in a year that you
weren't even sure you were about
to make it happen in a year,
but now when something is
on the line, life, something
you care about, you said
no matter what, you'd
be able to make it happen?
Why is that?
So what is limiting you from
making it happen sooner?
And usually, we don't
have enough urgency
and we don't believe
in ourselves enough.
There's a fear of failure,
a fear of looking bad, not
having the resources,
something breaking down.
But when we have a sense
of urgency for our life,
we're able to do
incredible things.
So I think a lot
of people are just
afraid of dreaming
big and going big
because of the fear of
looking bad or failing.
Instead, I try to shift and say,
let's have a bigger purpose,
like an imagined life is now.
Imagine that you maybe
only have a couple of days,
a couple of weeks,
a couple of months,
what do you want
to do in your life?
And when we have more urgency
in our life and we make it more
precious, we're willing
to do things that we've--
fear becomes irrelevant because
we say, this matters now
and I'm to do whatever it takes.
So I think when we
shift our mindset--
and I'm just constantly
trying to evoke that out
of other people and
in myself and say,
why am I waiting for two years?
Why can't I do
this in two months?
this in six months?
Who cares if I've never
done something before.
Why can't I learn it and come
from a different perspective?
Even if I don't have
years of experience,
why can't I do this?
And so I think that's
what pulls people back
is this thinking
that we have forever,
thinking that
they're not capable,
they don't have the
resources or the time,
but really, they just need
to shift their urgency
and know that they are capable.
>> Beautiful.
Very inspirational.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, how does
it work, though,
if people want to set a
goal that doesn't seem big,
but if people want to do--
like I've met a very
dynamic group of people,
and just recently
as one example,
my family has moved
into a remote island
in the Pacific called Vanuatu--
a cyclone or a typhoon
just passed through there,
the other night, everyone's OK.
It's all good.
But there's a gentleman
on that island.
He's a gay artist.
He's a Polynesian
gentleman married
to a Russian ex-diplomat.
Aloi Pilioko-- eccentric,
as you can imagine.
Paints his car,
his wine glasses,
everything in his house.
It's like living in a museum
and he's an amazing painter
and he's had exhibitions in
Paris, and all over the world.
But his goal seems
small, I just want paint.
I just want to paint.
How do you approach
people, because I'm
trying to land the plane
on this a little bit
for everyday people.
There's people that are
A players that are like,
yeah, I want to take on the
world, yes, I want to do this.
I just want to achieve.
What if we've got
someone listening to this
and is like, you know what?
I just want to be
an awesome mum,
or I just want to be
an artist and paint,
and I don't care if my
work's successful or not,
I just want to paint.
How do you sort of approach
that in terms of goal setting?
>> Yeah.
I mean, I never want
to make anyone wrong
if they want to do something
with their life that's
not like save the world or cure
cancer or whatever it may be,
that's OK.
But I think you just
got to think about,
how do I want my life to
look like when I'm gone?
Am I going to have any regrets
if I didn't go do that thing,
whether it be chase that studio
that I wanted to paint in
or I wanted to go start
my company or leave my job
and do something on the
side or whatever it may be,
are you going to
have any regrets?
And I just try to think of
my life like if I don't go
do this thing, will I
regret it when I'm dying?
If I live to 100 and beyond
will I regret not going for it?
And for me, actually, the
goal of achieving goals
is not what's important for me.
I want to make the
Olympics still.
I want to impact
100 million people,
but if I don't achieve
them, I'm going
to be 100% at peace
because I know
that I'm going to go all
in in my effort to trying
to make it happen.
And if I look back at the
end of the day, I'll say,
you know what?
You gave everything and
that's what matters to me.
It's not actually
achieving the goal,
it's the pursuit of saying
at least I went for it.
At least I tried my best.
At least I did whatever it
took, and I might have failed,
but I went for it.
So I think it's
just more of saying,
how do you want
your life to look?
If you want to be
the mom of three
and raise incredible
human beings that
change the world or that
live a great life, awesome.
If that makes you
happy and you feel
fulfilled in that
life's mission, awesome.
But I think ask
yourself, is there
anything deep inside that
I would like to go after
and am I holding
back on that dream?
If so, then I think you're
letting yourself down
and you're letting
the world down,
because you have an incredible
gift to share with the world
and if you're just
going to hoard your gift
and not share it, then I
think that's a disservice
to humanity.
>> Beautiful and I
couldn't agree more.
There's people harboring
incredible talent.
>> Incredible talents.
>> And ability to serve and
this film's a lot about helping
to unlock people's
capability and potential.
>> Yeah.
And I think if you just
don't want to do something
because you don't care
about it, that's fine,
but if you care deeply
about it, but you're
afraid to put yourself out
there, then that's the crime.
So don't be afraid to
put yourself out there
or at least give it a shot.
Who cares if it fails?
At least you're going for it.
At least you're living
your life by example.
You're teaching your kids, your
family members that, hey, mommy
is scared of starting
this thing on the side,
but I'm going to do it
anyways because that's
what I believe in.
I believe in teaching
you kids this process,
as well, that, hey, you should
go after the things you love.
Fight for the things
you dream about.
Who cares if you fail?
At least you did it.
At least you went
for it and that's
a beautiful part of life.
So I think if you don't have
that dream of doing something,
it's all good.
Just you raise your kids and
be the best parents you can be,
and that's an amazing
human being, as well.
You know, the parent that goes
after their dreams and neglects
their kids is probably
not the best example, so
how can you do it all?
That's what's beautiful.
>> Great.
So let's talk a little
bit about visualization
now, because I know
that a lot of the guests
that you probably
have in your podcast
and even you in your
own personal life
probably use these
tools, I'm guessing,
but I want to hear
from you on it.
And mental rehearsal
is an important skill
that so many people
use, and I think
about Novak building
an imaginary trophy
at a young age of six,
imagining winning Wimbledon
and becoming number
one in the world.
This is like an impossible
dream for somebody in Serbia
at that time, and then
doing it on the same day.
>> Crazy.
>> Like there is no--
>> You can't even make that up.
>> That's insane.
>> So do you believe in the
power of visualization and/or
mental rehearsal or manifesting?
How do you apply it and have
you seen people apply it?
>> I don't think you can achieve
anything without seeing it
first and experiencing it
first within our minds.
From my experience, everything
I've done, all my dreams,
I dreamed about and experienced
vividly before they happened,
so I just don't many people
who have won the Super
Bowl without thinking about it
and experiencing themselves.
Maybe they thought
it was a long shot,
but they still dreamed about it
and saw themselves in the game,
catching the ball, throwing
the pass, whatever it may be,
so I think you have
to do that in order
to be able to achieve such
extraordinary dreams that
are so unlikely.
I started doing this
at a very young age
because I was always
alone, so I imagined myself
doing things with other
people, playing sports
and I would always dream.
And then when I
got to college, I
felt like I started to master
this process, especially
in the decathlon.
I remember taking
on the decathlon
and I had six months to
train for the decathlon
before the national
championships.
I wanted to be an
All-American decathlete.
And my coach said, you
need to do everything
I tell you to do for
the next six months
if you want a chance.
I had never done
the decathlon before
and there were many
events that I had never
competed in, the pole vault, the
javelin, the discus, the shot
put, the 110 high hurdles, all
very technical events that I
had to learn how to master.
I would watch game
film an hour before I
went to bed every single
night of the top pole vaulters
in the world and I would
just watch this in my bed
and I would imagine myself
and go through the motions
as they were putting
the pole into the box,
driving their knee
up, going upside down,
inverting and
flipping over the bar.
I would in my bed watch it
and then mimic it myself
and just repeat the pattern
over and over again,
so that when I went to
sleep, I was imagining myself
as the top pole
vaulter in the world
and going through
repetition after repetition.
Then the next morning, I
would go to practice and apply
what I visualized and
practiced in my mind,
and I would do
this over and over
and over again on
every different event,
so I could see myself as one
of the best in the world.
And little by
little I got better,
and I made it to the
national championships
and I made All-American by
being one of the top eight
decathletes in the country.
And I know for a fact, there's
no way I would have been able
to overcome the
challenges, the stress,
and the adversity of the entire
season-- it was so taxing--
without having
the mental clarity
of seeing the results first.
I wanted them, but I
want to believe in myself
because I would have never have
seen it happening in my mind
first.
So I think we have to
do some type of practice
in imagining what it could
be like feeling the feelings,
whether it be
launching that business
and having a team that
we're talking to, whether it
be playing a sport,
whether it be having
the partner of your
dreams, imagining what
that person looks
like when you wake up
and you see them
smiling back at you.
The feeling you have of
the joy, or the passion,
and the love that you've
never felt in your life.
If you can't imagine
it, you're going
to get the scraps of life.
You're going to get what's
left over from everyone else's
dreams, so you must
imagine exactly what
you want if you want to
have exactly what you want.
>> Listen, we touched on this
a little bit before around
fulfillment, but I want to take
a little bit of a different
angle on it, if you'll follow
me on this for a second here.
>> Sure.
>> Happiness is something
that's seemingly eluding a lot
of people, and there's multiple
reasons for it, I'm sure.
There's nutritional
deficiencies,
which is a big thing.
I mean, if you don't
feed your brain,
it's very difficult to be happy.
>> Yeah.
>> There's also people not
following their passion,
living someone else's dream, or
doing something that they think
they're meant to be doing, but
they're not really meant to be
doing.
There's so many different
ways to skin this,
but we've got more
people than ever
before taking antidepressants.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's a big deal, and so
far we help people a lot with
nutrition, but if you had
to take your knowledge
of everything you've had today
in this space of helping people
become great and try to distill
what makes people happy and how
people can achieve
happiness in their life,
how would you approach that?
>> I think Tony Robbins said
that success is a science
and fulfillment is an art,
and Robin Williams is a great
example of that.
Here's arguably
one of the funniest
people in the world
who brought so much joy
and happiness to people, but
he wasn't happy with himself.
There was something
darker deep with inside,
but he learned how to
be successful and make
other people happy, but
he couldn't figure it out
for himself until he
had committed suicide.
And what I learned early on
when I was on my sister's couch,
I was eating so much
crap food and for me, I
remember thinking first, I
need to master my nutrition.
I was having so much
junk food, but I
didn't understand anything.
I didn't know that eating
pizza and pasta all day
long was not good for my
brain or my happiness.
Short-term happiness,
yes, long-term, no.
And when I shifted
my nutrition, I
felt that it was an
automatic sense of my body,
my chemistry changed.
I felt happier just by
the things that I ate
and when I became aware
of what to put in my body.
So the first thing
for me was nutrition.
It was getting
clear on how can I--
they used to call me
"Flewis" for fat Lewis
because I got so big after
I got done playing sports
because I was eating
so much, I didn't care,
because in sports,
I could burn it off,
but now I'm not
playing anymore and I'm
feeling lethargic and slow.
So nutrition for me was
the number one thing.
When I got my nutrition down,
I had this positive fuel
and energy that I
could run through life
and not be exhausted.
The second thing was
my thoughts and ideas.
If I'm thinking a lot
of negative things
and having negative thoughts,
holding onto grudges,
getting defensive, I'm
not going to be happy.
So I had to learn my
emotional fitness next.
First was the physical
fitness, nutrition,
then emotional fitness,
and that's a practice.
I think it's a daily
practice for me.
That's why every single
morning I wake up
and I talk about gratitude
with my girlfriend.
It's our first thing we talk
about what are we grateful for
and what are we excited
about creating today?
Having something to do.
Having something
we're excited about
brings us more
happiness and joy.
Every time someone calls my
cell phone and leaves a message,
on my answering message it
says, before you tell me
what you want, tell me
what you're grateful for.
I'm always evoking
gratitude out of others.
And then at night,
I'm writing down
and talking to my
girlfriend about what
I'm grateful for from the day.
Gratitude for me is the
key to starting and living
a happier life.
Without gratitude, we don't
have a positive perspective.
We're ungrateful and it's
easier for us to be negative.
So we've got the
nutritional side of things,
then I've got the
emotional health,
and that's what I really
focus on and after that,
it's community.
And when I have
positive relationships,
I feel happier
and more fulfilled
and I feel a deeper
sense of connection.
So those are really the three
things that I tried to master
and continually try to improve
in order to set myself up
for a happier life.
>> Beautiful and gratitude
is such an important point,
and I think it's so underrated.
>> Huge.
>> And sometimes, when I--
even moving to Vanuatu recently
and seeing a culture of people
that live day to day--
>> Sure.
>> --just with the food that
they can cut down from a tree
with a knife and having
simple shelter over themselves
and they're grateful to
God, to their creator,
to everything for the
opportunity to even exist.
>> Exactly.
>> And they're so happy and
that is just infectious,
and it's like, well, hang on,
I've got all these aspirations
and goals, and I've got to
achieve them first before I can
be happy.
That's a trap and I
see a lot of people
getting caught in that trap.
>> Yeah, I mean, for me, it's
hard to be angry and grateful
at the same time, and that's
why I think we have to have
perspective in our life.
This is why I live a life to try
to give back as much as I can
to people that don't
have as much as me.
Every year, we build schools
for kids in Ghana and Guatemala
and Laos, and every time
I go and visit these kids,
they literally have nothing.
They don't even have--
they have food for the day.
They live in a little hut.
They live on the dirt,
but they're so happy
and I'm like, man,
this perspective.
They're so grateful
for the little things.
They're so joyful to have
a community and a family.
They're so grateful that there
is a school to go to now.
And I think you go to
these places in the world
and you come back and drive
through Beverly Hills, one
of the most wealthiest
places in the world,
and you just think
to yourself, man,
there's nothing
to complain about.
If I focus on perspective, I
have so much good in my life,
even if it seems stressful
and overwhelming,
and I'm not getting what I want,
or the coffee was too hot today
at Starbucks, look
at perspective
and be grateful that you
have somewhere to go,
that you have a
job to go to, even
though you're stuck
in traffic, at least
you have somewhere to go.
You have a family.
You have a home to come back to.
And I think when we
reflect on the things
that we are grateful for,
we allow for more things
to be grateful
for into our life.
>> So explain to me
your practice again.
You think about what
you're grateful for.
>> Yes.
>> Do you meditate or do you
do closed-eye stuff or you
journal?
What is the main ways that
you practice gratitude, again,
if you could recap that?
>> Yeah for me, gratitude is
a constant throughout the day,
so I try to set myself
up with triggers.
In the morning, I talk
about it with my girlfriend
what I'm grateful for,
what she's grateful for,
and what we're excited
about creating that day.
I think having a purpose of what
we're going to do is important.
When someone calls
me, I'm invoking it.
I'm saying, what are
you grateful for?
Whether they get a call from
me and I don't pick it up,
it's on my voice message or if
they call me and I do pick up,
I say, what are
you grateful for?
And I'm invoking
it in other people
to get them to think about
perspective, as well.
At night, I journal
it and write it down,
but I'm also evoking
it from my girlfriend
and we're talking about it.
So for me, if I don't do
it throughout the day,
I can easily go back to
a place of negativity
or a place of I'm not getting
what I want or I'm not happy
or it should be done this way.
I could easily be one of
the most negative people
in the world and that's
why I need to set myself up
with a structure.
Every single
morning, for me, this
is what's important is
to get a workout in,
and it changes from day
to day, week to week,
but do something where I move
my body, because then I'm
moving any negative energy
I have out of my system
and allowing myself to flow
with more positive energy.
I make my bed every
single morning,
because that's important to have
a clean space mentally, mostly
emotionally and physically.
And then meditation, I
do about 12 to 15 minutes
where I'm just really focusing
on what my intention is
for the day and how
I want to show up.
If there is traffic, how
do I want to respond?
If someone says something
nasty to me online,
how am I going to react?
If someone frustrates me,
how do I want to respond?
So for me it's life is
happening around us,
and there's so many chaotic
things that are happening.
We can't control the
The only thing we can control is
our response to everything, so
how are we going
to allow everything
to upset us and frustrate us
and control and have power
over our life that
day, or do we want
to be the authors of
our story that day
and have complete control
of how we respond?
And I think that's why a
morning routine is important
and also an evening
routine is important,
because when I go to bed
prepared and visualizing
before I sleep of how I
want to live the next day,
I usually wake up
happier than if I just go
to sleep with nothing in mind.
That's why visualization
is really important.
>> Awesome.
Great tools.
Great strategies.
So I've got one last
question for you
here because I think we should
definitely wrap up right now
and the last question is,
imagine you walked out
on this stage and
you're backstage,
maybe you got your
power move, right?
You're backstage, you're
pumping yourself up,
and you're about to
walk out and someone
hands you the
microphone, and they're
like, Lewis, you've got
the whole world out there
listening, you've got
one minute, two minutes.
Leave your message.
Leave your legacy.
Go for it.
What are you going
to teach today?
I ask people that question, too.
I mean, it's powerful.
So if I got one or two
minutes to share my message
with the world, I
would say, first off,
that your dreams matter
because you matter,
so follow your dreams because
that's the thing that brings us
the most joy, when we have
something to look forward to.
When we have something
we want to chase,
it gives us a purpose,
a reason, and a meaning
to get up every single
day and make a difference,
so your dreams matter
because you matter,
so follow your dreams.
If you don't have
your health, you're
not going to be around long
enough to live your dreams.
Do whatever you can to protect
your physical, emotional, and
mental stability.
Really master the art
of health in your life
and make it a top priority.
And the final thing is
if you live your dreams,
you achieve all these
things for yourself,
and you live a healthy
lifestyle, that's good
and it serves you, but make
sure you live a life of service.
Give back all the
things you learn,
all the lessons you
learn, teach others
along the way because you
wouldn't be where you're
at without all the mentors of
the world who guided you, so
make sure you're constantly
living a life of service.
>> Perfect, well said.
I love it, Lewis.
That's amazing.
So you've got this idea.
You've got this dream.
You got this passion, what do
you need to create around you
in order to achieve it?
>> Well, I think in order to
live a happy, meaningful life,
as well, you want to make sure
you're very picky and choosy
about who you spend your time
with because if someone around
you is constantly negative, it's
hard to be grateful and happy.
It's hard to feel joyful
when someone is constantly
taking away your joy, so
your tribe, the community
and your mentors, your
coaches, your friends,
they're very important
about who you choose
to spend a lot of time with.
There's quotes out
there about, you
become the average
of the five people
you spend the most time with.
I think it's very true
that your happiness is also
the average of the happiness
of the five people around you.
If people are not
happy a lot of the time
and you're spending a
lot of energy with them,
you're going to pick
up on that negativity.
You're going to feed into it.
So surround yourself with
joyful, purpose-driven
individuals who live
a life of gratitude
and who believe in
the similar things.
That is going to support
you in accelerating
to achieving your
goals and your dreams,
and it's going to bring you more
fulfillment and more energy.
So you get to be conscious
and mindful of saying,
hey, having those conversations
with your friends saying,
hey, I want to make sure
that we practice gratitude.
I want to make sure that
we're not gossiping,
not talking negative
about other people,
but we're more inspiring
with each other,
that we're talking
about bigger ideas,
and we're acknowledging
each other for our gifts
and for the small
wins every single day.
We're not comparing
or judging each other.
When we do that, we live a
more meaningful and happy life.
So I think it's
going to support you
in your path of achieving
your dreams when you find
the right crew, the
right mentors, and just
the right information
that you're
soaking in every single day.
[MUSIC PLAYING]